communication guide: overhaul (#1667)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/community/communication.rst

Forum
=====

> The `Ansible Community Forum <https://forum.ansible.com>`_ is a single starting point and our default communication platform for questions and help, development discussions, events, and much more. `Register <https://forum.ansible.com/signup?>`_ to join the community. Search by categories and tags to find interesting topics or start a new one; subscribe only to topics you need!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Ansible Forum <https://forum.ansible.com>`_ is a single starting point and our default communication platform for questions and help, development discussions, events, and much more. `Register <https://forum.ansible.com/signup?>`_ to join the community. Search by categories and tags to find interesting topics or start a new one; subscribe only to topics you need!
```

Take a look at the `forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_ and join ones that match your interests.
In most cases, joining a forum group automatically subscribes you to related posts.

The Bullhorn
------------

**The Bullhorn** is our newsletter for the Ansible contributor community published in the Forum:

* To subscribe, click the ``bell`` button under the `Bullhorn category <https://forum.ansible.com/c/news/bullhorn/17>`_ description and then ``Watching``.
* To publish your news item, see the `About the Newsletter category post <https://forum.ansible.com/t/about-the-newsletter-category/166>`_.

> * Questions about the newsletter? Ask us in the `Ansible Social room on Matrix<https://matrix.to/#/#social:ansible.com>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Questions about the newsletter? Ask us in the `Ansible Social room on Matrix <https://matrix.to/#/#social:ansible.com>`_.
```

> Forum

Reviewer: For most readers I hope they only need to read  CoC & Forum.
So lets see if we can provide all the relevant context (without been too long) in these sections.

=====

The `Ansible Community Forum <https://forum.ansible.com>`_ is a single starting point and our default communication platform for questions and help, development discussions, events, and much more. `Register <https://forum.ansible.com/signup?>`_ to join the community. Search by categories and tags to find interesting topics or start a new one; subscribe only to topics you need!

> 

Reviewer: Do we want to highlight the Forum key categories & tags here.

Reviewer 2: I'd leave out tags entirely and maybe just add a sentence or two to describe Projects, help, and news categories as the big three.

Author: if you click the forum link behind Ansible Community Forum https://forum.ansible.com , there's that page with categories and they are imo already well described there. So i suggest not to duplicate those descriptions here.

Reviewer: OK. Let's leave it as you have here, and we can always change later if we get any feedback on this.

Take a look at the `forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_ and join ones that match your interests.

> In most cases, joining a forum group automatically subscribes you to related posts.

Reviewer: Please move the "Want to create a group" to the end of the doc

Author: I've removed it as there's a dedicated section anyway

Real-time chat
==============

For real-time interactions, conversations in the Ansible community happen over the Matrix protocol.

.. note::

>   The :ref:`ansible_forum` is our default communication platform. Make sure you joined and use it before considering other options like Matrix.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The :ref:`ansible_forum` is our default communication platform. Join the forum and get in touch with the community there before considering other options like Matrix.
```

> Join a channel any time to chat with fellow enthusiasts, participate in a Working Group meeting, or just say hello. To do it, you need:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Join a channel any time to chat with fellow enthusiasts, participate in a Working Group meeting, or just say hello. To chat on Matrix, you need:
```

* a Matrix account (from `Matrix.org <https://app.element.io/#/register>`_ or any other Matrix homeserver)
* a `Matrix client <https://matrix.org/clients/>`_ (we recommend `Element Webchat <https://app.element.io>`_)

The Ansible community maintains its own Matrix homeserver at ``ansible.im``, however, public registration is currently unavailable.

The room links in the :ref:`general_channels` or the :ref:`working_group_list` list will take you directly to the relevant rooms.

> If there is no appropriate room for your community, please create it if needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there is no appropriate room for your community, please feel free to create one.
```

Author: @oraNod i wanted to make them think if they really need it. can we rephrase it somehow wrt the intent? There are a lot of ghost towns

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest we don't mention the option to create a new matrix room at all. They should be active on the forum first and have a good set of participants before we create more  potentially 'ghost' rooms in matrix.

Author: I like the suggesting not to have it here, removed, thanks

For more information, see the community-hosted `Matrix FAQ <https://hackmd.io/@ansible-community/community-matrix-faq>`_.

You can add Matrix shields to your repository's ``README.md`` using the shield in the `community-topics <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics#community-topics>`_ repository as a template.

.. note::

>   The IRC channels are not considered official communication channels anymore. Please use the Forum and Matrix instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  IRC channels are no longer considered official communication channels. Please use the Forum and Matrix instead.
```

General channels
----------------

The clickable links will take you directly to the relevant Matrix room in your browser; room/channel information is also given for use in other clients:

- `Community social room and posting news for the Bullhorn newsletter <https://matrix.to:/#/#social:ansible.com>`_
- `General usage and support questions <https://matrix.to:/#/#users:ansible.com>`_
- `Discussions on developer topics and code related to features or bugs <https://matrix.to/#/#devel:ansible.com>`_ 
- `Discussions on community and collections related topics <https://matrix.to:/#/#community:ansible.com>`_

> - `For public community meetings <https://matrix.to/#/#meeting:ansible.im>`_

Reviewer 2: Does anyone use this meeting channel? I didn't even know it existed in matrix land... :-)

Author: it's another ghost town, removed it, we should shut it down

- `Discussions on community and collections related topics <https://matrix.to:/#/#community:ansible.com>`_ - ``Matrix: #community:ansible.com | IRC: #ansible-community``
- `For public community meetings <https://matrix.to/#/#meeting:ansible.im>`_ - ``Matrix: #meeting:ansible.im | IRC: #ansible-meeting``
   - We will generally announce these on one or more of the above mailing lists. See the `meeting schedule <https://github.com/ansible-community/meetings/blob/main/README.md>`_
- `Community social room and posting news for the Bullhorn newsletter <https://matrix.to:/#/#social:ansible.com>`_
- `General usage and support questions <https://matrix.to:/#/#users:ansible.com>`_
- `Discussions on developer topics and code related to features or bugs <https://matrix.to/#/#devel:ansible.com>`_ 
- `Discussions on community and collections related topics <https://matrix.to:/#/#community:ansible.com>`_
- `For public community meetings <https://matrix.to/#/#meeting:ansible.im>`_

Working group-specific channels
-------------------------------

Many of the working groups have dedicated chat channels. See the :ref:`working_group_list` for more information.

> Regional and Language-specific channels

Reviewer: Should we keep this section, and link to https://forum.ansible.com/c/other-languages/10
as well as directly to individual languages.

And maybe move this as a subsection under `Forum` at the top of this file.

Author: Added a section, PTAL

> Meetings on chat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meetings on Matrix
```

> For more information about Ansible meetings, consult the `meeting schedule and agenda page <https://github.com/ansible-community/meetings/blob/main/README.md>`_.

Reviewer 2: The next thing on our list of things to remove is that separate meetings calendar. We should get the four current community meetings to get it on the forum events calendar and then we can change the links to that.  Just a note for the future :-)

Working Groups are a way for Ansible community members to self-organize around particular topics of interest.

> Our community working groups are represented in `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_ and additionally in `Matrix rooms <https://matrix.to/#/#space:ansible.com>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our community working groups are represented in `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>.
```

Reviewer 2: The forum group pages should link to any relevant chat rooms.

Author: SGTM

See those links for a complete list of communications channels.

> Forming a new working group

Reviewer: I guess 99% of people aren't interested in how to setup a Working Group.
Should we move this elsewhere, do we have an existing page (or Forum Guide) on how to setup a Working Group?

Reviewer 2: The forum 'new group' button seems to have most of the details and is a form template we can update if we want to add more details - https://forum.ansible.com/g/custom/new

Author: Agreed, that info is imo a bit extra, reorganized, PTAL

Working Groups are a way for Ansible community members to self-organize around particular topics of interest.

> Our community working groups are represented in `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our community working groups are represented in `Forum groups <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_.
```

See those links for a complete list of communications channels.

Requesting a forum group
--------------------------

To request a new working group:

* Check if there is no appropriate `Forum group <https://forum.ansible.com/g>`_ you can join instead of starting a new one.
* See the `things you can ask for <https://forum.ansible.com/t/working-groups-things-you-can-ask-for/175>`_ with respect to working groups.

> * Request a group in the `forum topic <https://forum.ansible.com/t/requesting-a-forum-group/503>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Request a group in the `forum topic <https://forum.ansible.com/t/requesting-a-forum-group/503>`_.
```

the next weekly issue.

Read past issues of `the Bullhorn <https://forum.ansible.com/c/news/bullhorn/17>`_.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe move Bullhorn earlier?

Author: done
